README.md, before:

# Pusher Chatkit Android

[![Read the docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/read_the-docs-92A8D1.svg)](https://docs.pusher.com/chatkit/reference/android)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-@Pusher-blue.svg?style=flat)](http://twitter.com/Pusher)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-lightgrey.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pusher/chatkit-android/master/LICENSE)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/pusher/chatkit-android/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/pusher/chatkit-android)
[![Travis branch](https://img.shields.io/travis/pusher/chatkit-android/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/pusher/chatkit-android)
[![Download](https://api.bintray.com/packages/pusher/maven/chatkit-android/images/download.svg)](https://bintray.com/pusher/maven/chatkit-android/_latestVersion)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.pusher/chatkit-android.svg?label=Maven%20Central)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:%22com.pusher%22%20AND%20a:%22chatkit-android%22)

Find out more about Chatkit [here](https://pusher.com/chatkit).

The SDK is written in Kotlin, but aimed to be as Java-friendly as possible.
Please report incompatibilities with Java as bugs.

## Requirements

- minSdkVersion is 19 (KitKat)

## Installation

The project is hosted primarily on JCenter, and synced to Maven Central.

The latest release version can be seen in the badges above.

## Deprecated versions

Versions of the library below
[1.0.0](https://github.com/pusher/chatkit-android/releases/tag/v1.0.0) are no
longer supported by the backend.

To view a list of changes, please refer to the [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md).

### Gradle

```
repositories {
  jcenter()
}

dependencies {
  // ...
  implementation 'com.pusher:chatkit-android:$chatkit-version'
}
```

### Maven

```
<!-- optional, add the primary source repo.
     exclude to use mirrored version from Maven Central -->
<repositories>
  <repository>
    <id>jcenter</id>
    <url>https://jcenter.bintray.com/</url>
  </repository>
<repositories>

<dependency>
  <groupId>com.pusher</groupId>
  <artifactId>chatkit-android</artifactId>
  <version>VERSION</version>
</dependency>
```

## Development

When building this project, you may choose to use a local version of
[`pusher-platform-android`](1).

To do so you can add the path to your local copy in your
`~/.gradle/gradle.properties`:

```
pusher_platform_local=/path/to/pusher-platform-android
```

It can be either a relative or absolute path.

[1]: https://github.com/pusher/pusher-platform-android

## Testing

The SDK has integration tests which run against a real Chatkit server. The tests
can be run either using the Gradle task `test` or directly in Android Studio.

In order for the tests to pass you must provide a Chatkit instance
credential from the [dashboard](https://dash.pusher.com/chatkit/).

*Important:* The tests will delete any and all resources associated with
the instance you provide. Create a new instance for testing purposes, and do not
share it anywhere else.

To run the tests directly from Android Studio you will need to install the
[Spek](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8564-spek/) plugin, and
[Spek Framework](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10915-spek-framework/).
Both plugins are needed as older tests are written using Spek 1, and newer
tests are using Spek 2.
To do this go to Android Studio -> Preferences -> Plugins ->
search for Spek, and Spek Framework and install both plugins. If you open a Spek test file
(e.g. RoomSpek), you should now see green play buttons to run each test
(or a test group from a file).

You will need to add your Chatkit test instance credentials to the VM — to do this edit
the run configurations -> select Spek on the left -> in the VM options field
enter the following:

```
-Dchatkit_integration_locator=<INSTANCE_LOCATOR> -Dchatkit_integration_key=<SECRET_KEY>
```

To run the Gradle test task, you will need to add your Chatkit test instance
credentials to your global `~/.gradle/gradle.properties` file:

```
chatkit_integration_locator=<INSTANCE_LOCATOR>
chatkit_integration_key=<SECRET_KEY>
```

## Linting

We currently use [ktlint](https://github.com/pinterest/ktlint).
You can use the `ktlintCheck` gradle task to check if there are any errors.
Most errors can be automatically resolved by using `ktlintFormat` gradle task
— if it can't auto resolve the issue, it will let you know what to do.

We have configured our project to to be compliant with Android Kotlin Style Guide,
however if you're finding that hasn't worked for you please read the installation
instructions over at https://github.com/pinterest/ktlint#-with-intellij-idea.

## Publishing

### jCenter

The two artifacts this project produces (`chatkit-core` and `chatkit-android`)
are published in `jCenter`.

Firstly, make sure you have a [BinTray](https://bintray.com) account. To get
the api key go to Profile > Edit > Api Key

Then you need to set up a user name and api key.

Either on your local `~/.gradle/gradle.properties` as:

```properties
bintrayUser=you-bintray-user-name
bintrayApiKey=your-bintray-api-key
```

Or as environment variables (mainly for CI):

```bash
BINTRAY_USER=you-bintray-user-name
BINTRAY_API_KEY=your-bintray-api-key
```

You will also need to have `SONATYPE_GPG_PASSPHRASE` set as an environment
variable. This is, as the name suggests, the GPG passphrase for the Maven
signing key.

Now, to do the actual release run:

```bash
gradlew build
gradlew bintrayUpload
```

**Note:** The publish action will both override the current release (if it has
the same version name as the current) and automatically publish the new
version.

### Maven

You should sync the artefacts to Maven from the Bintray web interface.

Commit message:

Add detekt (#173)
* Add detekt

* Add instructions to readme for detekt

* Update README.md

Co-Authored-By: Marek <marek.urbaniak@gmail.com>

* Update README.md

Co-Authored-By: Marek <marek.urbaniak@gmail.com>

* Update chatkit-core baseline detekt

Co-authored-by: Marek <marek.urbaniak@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Pusher Chatkit Android

[![Read the docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/read_the-docs-92A8D1.svg)](https://docs.pusher.com/chatkit/reference/android)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-@Pusher-blue.svg?style=flat)](http://twitter.com/Pusher)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-lightgrey.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pusher/chatkit-android/master/LICENSE)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/pusher/chatkit-android/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/pusher/chatkit-android)
[![Travis branch](https://img.shields.io/travis/pusher/chatkit-android/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/pusher/chatkit-android)
[![Download](https://api.bintray.com/packages/pusher/maven/chatkit-android/images/download.svg)](https://bintray.com/pusher/maven/chatkit-android/_latestVersion)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.pusher/chatkit-android.svg?label=Maven%20Central)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:%22com.pusher%22%20AND%20a:%22chatkit-android%22)

Find out more about Chatkit [here](https://pusher.com/chatkit).

The SDK is written in Kotlin, but aimed to be as Java-friendly as possible.
Please report incompatibilities with Java as bugs.

## Requirements

- minSdkVersion is 19 (KitKat)

## Installation

The project is hosted primarily on JCenter, and synced to Maven Central.

The latest release version can be seen in the badges above.

## Deprecated versions

Versions of the library below
[1.0.0](https://github.com/pusher/chatkit-android/releases/tag/v1.0.0) are no
longer supported by the backend.

To view a list of changes, please refer to the [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md).

### Gradle

```
repositories {
  jcenter()
}

dependencies {
  // ...
  implementation 'com.pusher:chatkit-android:$chatkit-version'
}
```

### Maven

```
<!-- optional, add the primary source repo.
     exclude to use mirrored version from Maven Central -->
<repositories>
  <repository>
    <id>jcenter</id>
    <url>https://jcenter.bintray.com/</url>
  </repository>
<repositories>

<dependency>
  <groupId>com.pusher</groupId>
  <artifactId>chatkit-android</artifactId>
  <version>VERSION</version>
</dependency>
```

## Development

When building this project, you may choose to use a local version of
[`pusher-platform-android`](1).

To do so you can add the path to your local copy in your
`~/.gradle/gradle.properties`:

```
pusher_platform_local=/path/to/pusher-platform-android
```

It can be either a relative or absolute path.

[1]: https://github.com/pusher/pusher-platform-android

## Testing

The SDK has integration tests which run against a real Chatkit server. The tests
can be run either using the Gradle task `test` or directly in Android Studio.

In order for the tests to pass you must provide a Chatkit instance
credential from the [dashboard](https://dash.pusher.com/chatkit/).

*Important:* The tests will delete any and all resources associated with
the instance you provide. Create a new instance for testing purposes, and do not
share it anywhere else.

To run the tests directly from Android Studio you will need to install the
[Spek](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8564-spek/) plugin, and
[Spek Framework](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10915-spek-framework/).
Both plugins are needed as older tests are written using Spek 1, and newer
tests are using Spek 2.
To do this go to Android Studio -> Preferences -> Plugins ->
search for Spek, and Spek Framework and install both plugins. If you open a Spek test file
(e.g. RoomSpek), you should now see green play buttons to run each test
(or a test group from a file).

You will need to add your Chatkit test instance credentials to the VM — to do this edit
the run configurations -> select Spek on the left -> in the VM options field
enter the following:

```
-Dchatkit_integration_locator=<INSTANCE_LOCATOR> -Dchatkit_integration_key=<SECRET_KEY>
```

To run the Gradle test task, you will need to add your Chatkit test instance
credentials to your global `~/.gradle/gradle.properties` file:

```
chatkit_integration_locator=<INSTANCE_LOCATOR>
chatkit_integration_key=<SECRET_KEY>
```

## Linting

We currently use [ktlint](https://github.com/pinterest/ktlint).
You can use the `ktlintCheck` gradle task to check if there are any errors.
Most errors can be automatically resolved by using `ktlintFormat` gradle task
— if it can't auto resolve the issue, it will let you know what to do.

We have configured our project to to be compliant with Android Kotlin Style Guide,
however if you're finding that hasn't worked for you please read the installation
instructions over at https://github.com/pinterest/ktlint#-with-intellij-idea.

## Code Analysis

We are using [detekt](https://github.com/arturbosch/detekt) to help measure our
technical debt. We have two baseline files (one for `chatkit-android`, and `chatkit-core`)
which are the current issues we have accepted. Any new issues will fail the build
on Travis.

You can run the `detekt` gradle task yourself before submitting a PR to
find out if you have introduced any new issues.

When a baseline issue is resolved, run the `detektBaseline` to update the
baseline config file.

## Publishing

### jCenter

The two artifacts this project produces (`chatkit-core` and `chatkit-android`)
are published in `jCenter`.

Firstly, make sure you have a [BinTray](https://bintray.com) account. To get
the api key go to Profile > Edit > Api Key

Then you need to set up a user name and api key.

Either on your local `~/.gradle/gradle.properties` as:

```properties
bintrayUser=you-bintray-user-name
bintrayApiKey=your-bintray-api-key
```

Or as environment variables (mainly for CI):

```bash
BINTRAY_USER=you-bintray-user-name
BINTRAY_API_KEY=your-bintray-api-key
```

You will also need to have `SONATYPE_GPG_PASSPHRASE` set as an environment
variable. This is, as the name suggests, the GPG passphrase for the Maven
signing key.

Now, to do the actual release run:

```bash
gradlew build
gradlew bintrayUpload
```

**Note:** The publish action will both override the current release (if it has
the same version name as the current) and automatically publish the new
version.

### Maven

You should sync the artefacts to Maven from the Bintray web interface.
